Ecommerce Application

This project consists of two separate applications: the **EcommerceBackEnd (Admin Management App)** and the **EcommerceFrontEnd (User Shopping App)**.
Both applications share the same MySQL database and are built using Spring Boot.

## 1. EcommerceBackEnd (Admin Management App)
This application is designed for administrators to manage the e-commerce platform. It consists of multiple modules, including:
- **Users** – Manage user accounts and roles.  
- **Categories** – Organize products into categories.  
- **Brands** – Manage product brands.  
- **Products** – Create, update, and delete products.  
- **Reviews** – Moderate customer reviews.  
- **Questions** – Manage customer questions about products.  
- **Customers** – View and manage registered customers.  
- **Shipping** – Define shipping methods and costs.  
- **Orders** – Process and track customer orders.  
- **Settings** – Configure platform-wide settings.  

For example, in the Users module, an admin can:
- View all users
- Add new users
- Update existing users
- Delete users
- Search for users by first or last name
- Sort the user list

Authentication & Security
The application is secured using **Spring Security**, requiring authentication to access.

You can use the following test accounts:
- admin@yahoo.com (Full access: manage everything)
- manager@yahoo.com (Manage users: list, edit, and add new users)
- editor@yahoo.com (Limited to listing and editing users)
- user@yahoo.com (View only: list users)
- Password for all accounts: password

Each module is tested using unit and integration tests to ensure proper functionality and reliability.

Technologies Used
- Java, Spring Boot, Spring MVC (Thymeleaf), Spring Security, MySQL Database.

## 2. EcommerceFrontEnd (User Shopping App)
This application allows customers to browse and purchase products online. 
Key features include:
- Viewing all available products
- Browsing products by category
- Accessing detailed product information
- Adding products to the shopping cart
- Creating a personalized account
- Placing and managing orders
- Receiving confirmation emails for registration and orders
- Tracking the status of orders in real-time
- Leaving product reviews
- Asking questions about products
- Making payments (in person or via PayPal)
- Returning products and orders if necessary

## Installation and Running Instructions
1. Clone the repository
2. Ensure MySQL is installed and running on your system.
3. Run the database script:
   - In the root directory of the project, execute `schema.sql` to create the database, tables, and populate test data.
4. Backend (EcommerceBackEnd) Configuration:
   - Update `application.properties` with your MySQL username and password.
   - Run the backend application
   - Access the app at [http://localhost:8000]
5. Frontend (EcommerceFrontEnd) Configuration:
   - Update `application.yml` with your MySQL username and password.
   - Run the frontend application
   - Access the app at [http://localhost:9000]

## License
This project is licensed under the **Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial 4.0 International License (CC BY-NC 4.0)**, meaning it **cannot be used for commercial purposes**.

---
This application provides a simple and efficient online shopping experience while offering full administrative control through the backend!

